Dpg and ApiView integration doc (#19122)
Azure/azure-rest-api-specs: documentation/onboard-dpg-in-sdkautomation/README.md

# Service Onboard DPG with Swagger CI Pipeline

Service Onboarding DPG with Swagger CI pipeline can help you get generated SDK and ApiView during the procedure of creating swagger PR.
The benefits are following:
1. API signature could be reviewed at the same time when we submit a Swagger PR. This could help to detect API issues at the early stage.
2. It enable service teams to access their SDKs even before their Swagger PR is merged.

This Document describes the process of how to onboard DPG with SDK automation pipeline. __This document is targeting for service team, who wants to onboard DPG.__ 

*If you want to go through details of pipeline implementation, please go to [Integrate DPG and ApiView in SDK Automation Pipeline](Integrate-dpg-and-apiview-in-sdk-automation-pipeline.md).*

## WorkFlow

![workflow-for-service-team](workflow-service-team.png)

__Description:__
1. Creates a swagger PR with [Guide to design and creation of Data Plane REST API and Client Libraries](https://aka.ms/azsdk/dpcodegen).
2. If the SDK was generated for this service before, and you don't need to change the autorest configuration in sdk repository, please go to step 4. Otherwise, please go to step 3.

> 3. Create branch with name `swagger/<prNumber>` in sdk repository, and add/update autorest configuration file in the branch. Then add a comment `/azp run` in swagger PR.

Reviewer: I think we still need to work on improving this step. Even if we don't have full workflow created for this yet we want some sort of helper scripts/tools (maybe docker) that can set this up initially and we want to be sure it happens for all the main languages and not just whichever random ones the service team picks.

Reviewer: Perhaps another idea is to not have an only have the service teams provide the extra needed properties and the automation handles seeding the new autorest.md creating the branch. 

We could provide some specialized comments in the specs PR that would allow the teams to provided whatever data is needed.

Author: please review the latest doc. thx

> 3. Create branch with name `swagger/<prNumber>` in sdk repository, and add/update autorest configuration file in the branch. Then add a comment `/azp run` in swagger PR.

Reviewer: For the branch name we try to come up with something a little more specific then `swagger/<prnumber>` as we also need to include branch clean-up policies for these. Perhaps a variation of the existing `sdkauto-onboarding/<prnumber>` or something like that.

   1. `<prNumber>` is the PR number of swagger PR.
   2. Please refer to [Add autorest configuration file in sdk repository](./add-autorest-configuration-file-in-sdk-repository.md) on how to add autorest configuration files.

> 4. Swagger PR CI generates SDK and ApiView automatically, and you can find them in swagger PR comments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Swagger PR pipeline will generate SDK and ApiView automatically by leveraging the SDK configurations. Those information could be found in swagger PR comments.
```

# Service Onboard DPG with Swagger CI Pipeline

> Service Onboarding DPG with Swagger CI pipeline can help you get generated SDK and ApiView during the procedure of creating swagger PR.

Reviewer 2: Could you add more details on why we need to do this?

The benefits are following:

> 1. Arch Board can review the ApiView when swagger PR is created and no need to wait for SDK owners to create ApiView manually, which saves much time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. API signature could be reviewed at the same time when we submit a Swagger PR. This could help to detect API issues at the early stage.
```

> 2. Service team can change the swagger in the PR directly if Arch Board has some comments in reviewing ApiView because the swagger PR is not merged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. It enable service teams to access their SDKs even before their Swagger PR is merged.
```

*If you want to go through details of pipeline implementation, please go to [Integrate DPG and ApiView in SDK Automation Pipeline](Integrate-dpg-and-apiview-in-sdk-automation-pipeline.md).*

## WorkFlow

> ![workflow-for-service-team](workflow-service-team.png)

Reviewer 2: It looks i can not comment on the pic directly so add the comments here:

1,   The first step should be create Swagger PR instead of 'Swagger PR'
2.   For 'create branch', do you need to specify the this is about the SDK repo?  And what if service team do not have permissions?
3.   Who will be responsible for deleting the branch?

Author: For the permission issue, there is a FAQ in the doc, and it tells services who they can ask for help. For others, I will change/add the related information

__Description:__

> 1. Creates a swagger PR.

Reviewer 2: Could you ask service team to follow https://aka.ms/azsdk/dpgcodegen to create the swagger PR?

Reviewer 2: Is there any difference for the PR in public repo or private repo?

Author: I cannot add the link https://aka.ms/azsdk/dpgcodegen.
there is no difference for PR in private repo.

> 2. If the service has onboarded DPG before, please go to step 4. Otherwise, please go to step 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If the SDK was generated for this service bfore , please go to step 4. Otherwise, this is a new service and please go to step 3.
```

> 3. Create branch with name `dpg/<prNumber>` in sdk repository, and add `autorest.md` or `README.md`. Then add a comment `/azp run` in swagger PR.

Reviewer 2: You may indicate that create the configuration file for SDK generation for each language.

Do you have specific guidance on what folder, what file name and what the file content should be in this step?

Author: Yes, there is a guide link in step 3.2, but the guide is not ready.

   1. `<prNumber>` is the PR number of swagger PR.
   2. About how to add `autorest.md` or `README.md`, please refer to [Add autorest configuration in sdk repository](./add-autorest-configuration-in-sdk-repository.md).
4. Swagger PR CI generates SDK and ApiView automatically, and you can find them in swagger PR comments.

> 5. Ask Arch Board to review the generated ApiView.

Reviewer 2: Could you ask service team to reference this link?  https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/internal/_wiki/wikis/internal.wiki/591/Guide-to-design-and-creation-of-Data-Plane-REST-API-and-Client-Libraries?anchor=ii.-review-the-api-design/definition

> 3. Create branch with name `dpg/<prNumber>` in sdk repository, and add autorest configuration file. Then add a comment `/azp run` in swagger PR.

Reviewer 2: Do you have the description for language specific configuration files? 
It is better to add the link (or place holder if this is not ready) on how to generate that file for each SDK.

6. If Arch Board approves the ApiView, go to step 10. Otherwise, go to step 7.
7. Update Swagger if needed.

> 8. Update `autorest.md` or `README.md` if needed. Here, if there is a branch named `dpg/<prNumber>` in sdk repository, please update it in the branch. Otherwise update it in main branch.

Reviewer 2: If there is change for the autorest.md,  shall we ask them to always create  a branch named `dpg/<prNumber>` , i don't think people could update main branch directly.

Author: Yes, I change to ask them to create a new branch `dpg/<prNumber>` to update the configuration.

>    2. About how to add autorest configuration file, please refer to [Add autorest configuration file in sdk repository](./add-autorest-configuration-file-in-sdk-repository.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. Please refer to [Add autorest configuration file in sdk repository](./add-autorest-configuration-file-in-sdk-repository.md) on how to add autorest configuration files.
```

> 5. Ask Arch Board to review the generated ApiView. (Please refer to the [Guide of Reviewing the Api Design/Definition](https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/internal/_wiki/wikis/internal.wiki/591/Guide-to-design-and-creation-of-Data-Plane-REST-API-and-Client-Libraries?anchor=ii.-review-the-api-design/definition)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5.  Please refer to the [Guide of Reviewing the Api Design/Definition](https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/internal/_wiki/wikis/internal.wiki/591/Guide-to-design-and-creation-of-Data-Plane-REST-API-and-Client-Libraries?anchor=ii.-review-the-api-design/definition) to reivew API definition.
```

> 6. If Arch Board approves the ApiView, go to step 10. Otherwise, go to step 7.

Reviewer 2: Combine 6-10.

If any change needed, please update the Swagger/configuration files and regenerate the SDK by adding a comment `/azp run` in swagger PR.

10. Get the generated SDK and do some manual changes, such as adding samples/tests to it.
    1. Swagger PR CI creates a PR for generated SDK, and you can find it in comment `[Swagger Generation Artifacts]->[sdk-repository-name]->[Preview SDK changes]`. For example: `[Swagger Generation Artifacts]->[azure-sdk-for-js]->[Preview SDK changes]`.
    2. About what manual changes you need to do, please refer to [Next Steps After Generating Codes](./next-steps-after-generating-codes.md).

> 11. Create a PR to sdk repository and ask SDK owner to review it.

Reviewer 2: Could you simplify the steps in 9,10,11 and combine them together?
i think we are mainly talk about the SDK automation instead of getstarted with SDK.

Author: merge 10 and 11. For 9, it ask service team to go back to step 4, and it's not fine to merge it.

## FAQ
1. I don't have permission to create branch in sdk repository. Who can I ask for help?
    
    __Answer__: Please ask sdk owners for help. SDK owner list:

>    1. .Net: chunyu3, pshao25, fengzhou-msft.

Reviewer 2: We have the email alias for support group, could you ask them to contact it irectly?
azsdk-dpgsupport@microsoft.com

> 8. Update autorest configuration file if needed. Here, if there is a branch named `dpg/<prNumber>` in sdk repository, please update it in the branch. Otherwise, create a branch named `dpg/<prNumber>` from `main` branch in sdk repository and update the `autorest.md` or `README.md` in the new created branch.

Reviewer 2: Can we put 8 into step 2?

Reviewer 2: Or put this into a seperate note:  if the change of the configuration file is needed, please do......

   2. Java: weidongxu-microsoft, haolingdong-msft
   3. Python: msyyc, changlong-liu
   4. JS: qiaozha, MaryGao
   
2. What should I do when I encounter error in generating SDK in swagger PR CI pipeline?
   

>     __Answer__: Please check the comment [Swagger Generation Artifacts] and the error message of failed pipeline. If you find the error messages ask you to fix `autorest.md`/`README.md`/swagger, please fix it. If you cannot understand error message, please ask sdk owners for help.

Reviewer 2: contact [azsdk-dpgsupport@microsoft.com](mailto:azsdk-dpgsupport@microsoft.com)  if they could not figure out the error.
